RESA capabilities used during Korean exercises in JLCCTC Federation
Mar. 22, 2016

Background

	KBSC will conduct a comprehensive comparison beteen RESA and JSAF in June 2016.
	This document was derived from notes taken during KR16 exercise and focuses on primarily technical capabilities
	actually used in the exercise that needs to be met by JSAF.

	RESA has been used at KBSC for over 25 years and has been continually customized to meet evolving requirements.
	The Linux version of RESA was first used at Yama Sakura exercise in December 2014 and benefits were immediately recognizable.
	RESA runs at least 20 times faster than on Alpha using PEO-STRI common hardware workstation as server.
	A checkpoint now takes 3 seconds and RESA is not the long pole during a refresh.  A recompile of RESA takes 2 minutes.

	There are fundamental differences in the architecture between RESA and JSAF.
	RESA is server oriented and JSAF is thick client and server oriented.
	RESA is ALSP based and JSAF is DIS based. (time regulated vs current time)
	RESA is deterministic and JSAF is not able to exactly replay an exercise to reproduce problems.

	The following sections highlight capabilities used or planned during KR16. 

Perceived JSAF Deficiencies for conducting KBSC Theater level exercise

	JSAF is expensive to operate at co-location site with Korean Naval Model based on analysis by LCDR Sevrance(sp?)
	KORCOM bridge needs additional work to accommodate JSAF
	JSAF is not fully interoperable with Korean models
	JSAF does not efficiently scale up to theater level exercise.
	JSAF does not support independent play since ground truth is known to all gamers.
	ATO in JSAF is manual.  Need to handle 200+ missions per day and 500+ airspace definitions
	JSAF can not perform federation save and restore like other models in federation
	JSAF is not time regulated causing geo-spatial inconsistencies across federation
	JSAF does not appear to distribute well
	Aircraft availability and maintenance is not modeled on carrier or bases

RESA deficiencies during KR16

	RESA does not directly report BDA of missile strikes to training audience but relies on Warsim/ACE-IOS interface.
	RESA displays CH hidden targets incapable of being damaged.

 
3 day setup, scenario and training is a reachable goal
	Given up-to-date parametric data, start-ex, enumerations, terrain, weather, RMG Otg file, ato mappings,
        sonar environment, interoperability testing, RESA can setup hardware, prepare scenario and train gamers in 3 days.
	Automated vulnerability scanning
	Federation wide Enumeration checker
	RESA incoming and outgoing enumeration checker
	Scenario generation begins with last years scenario
	Selectable model fidelity
	Terrain playbox
	Weather conditions
	Custom weapon loadout by ship based on start-ex
	Initial forces (Controller and gamer game books)

Software Install
	Single tar file contains directory structures for all source code and required data files takes 2 min to extract
	Rebuild of entire system takes 5 minutes
	Installation needs to be done on production, test, training and backup servers
	

Korean Theater level exercise (KR16)
	4000 active own and ghosted forces
	100,000 ground objects
	40,000 tracks or contacts
	Levels of aggregation (task id)
	1,000+ ATO missions
	31 workstatons
	50,000 orders

Exercise staffing
	To support 7th Fleet in areas of GCCS-M, ATO, Logistics, neutral shipping, Tech Control, on-site Programming support,
        ASW, AAR and Surface Warfare, RESA needed 2-3 people in tech control and 2 people in Operations Control per shift at KR16.
	Arrival time before exercise was reduced by 10 days from the prior KR. There were 19 working days for KR16 for tech control. 

Interoperability
	Interoperability with all US and ROK models in JLCCTC federation and JLVC federation via KORCOM bridge.
	Air tanker sharing with AWSIM
	Base sharing with AWSIM
	RESA retains units' ALSPID during restart from a federated save since some models retain alspid after delete is sent.
	RESA guarantees that missile interaction and deletion messages do not appear in same cycle so Warsim can process interaction. 

Availability
	100% available of models including hardware, software and network.

LAN and WAN
	Only sends update message when state of unit has changed that can not be handled by dead-reckoning.
	This greatly reduces network traffic.
	During Yama, the workstations are over WAN.  PLOT/ERASE MAP order can be used to control transfer of filled map over WAN.

Information Assurance
	Auto vulnerability scan of system( 500+ STIGs) before exercise.  No waivers required.
	Follow documented procedures
	Strong password

Training Objectives
	Meet training objectives in gamer free play environment
	Training objectives are driven by Master Scenario Events List(MSEL)

Co-location with ROK Naval Model
	Resolve problems such as track sharing to GCCS-M and hidden TEL sites.
	Discuss introperability issues with on-site, programmers, tech control, military

Exercise Driven Requirements
	7th Fleet, ROK Navy, Controllers, RMG, ATO, GCCS-M, federates and gamers make suggestions to improve RESA.
	Suggestions are recorded, prioritized and turned into requiremnents.
	Some enhancements are made on unclass machine during exercise.


Restart From Checkpoint
	Federation restart from checkpoint in less than 2 minutes by copying checkpoint from production to test.

Checkpoint
	Federation checkpoint in 3 seconds

Enumerations
	RESA received results of enumeration checker during KR16.
	
Performance
	RESA Server is PEO-STRI common hardware workstation
	Maintain real-time in all situations
	Ability to run 50:1 to catch-up time
	10 sec federation update cycle
	join in 1 min.  Federation time automatically received from Adaptor in JOIN_ACK message
	save in 3 sec
	restore in 3 sec
	fast refresh

Deterministic
	Exactly reproduce exercise in model review mode.

Realism
	Physics based modeling for sonar, radar, esm, jamming, ir, visual

Terrain
	DTED Level 1
	Can use SE CORE terrain when available
	Radar masking
	Ships running aground
	Aircraft initial altitude at elevation of base
	Missile land mass targeting
	Terrain editing
	Playbox
	Terrain on Geo
	Can use SE CORE
	
Work Station
	RESA Workstation is PEO-STRI common hardware workstation
	Central management of stations
	Tech, Control and blue, opfor and neutral gamer type stations.
	Gamer stations do not have access to ground-truth.
	Blue, Red, Neutral sides with total of 10 views
	Read only stations (lock)
	Multiple desktop capability allows single workstation to have production and test scenarios
	multiple monitor
	10 sec geo and astab update
	distributed over WAN to Osan, KBSC, Camp Humphrey, Japan, Okinawa(prior exercises), Ft. Lee (prior test event)
	Can train form real-world duty location
	PC with Xwindows or zero-client workstation (no RESA applications loaded)
	Each order time stamped and recorded with station number (who did what when)

Control station
	Ground truth
	display gamer geo
	copy all gamer messages
	Cross station messaging by station, view, side, or all
	Magic orders: relocate, create, enter, delete, replenish, damgage, charge

Gamer station
	No ground truth
	cross station messaging
	No magin orders
	Stations may be locked (read-only) by tech control

Intell Station

	Inject external spot intelligence reports to appropriate views' Intell ASTAB

Geographic Display
	Filled map in Korean theater is based on DTED with 500 meter resolution.
	Many small islands around Korean peninsula can be used to tactical advantage.
	Geographic display is updated every 10 seconds.

Automatic Status Boards
	4 ASTAB windows visible on dual monitor workstation
	45 different astabs can be selected.
	An astab selection can be extended to multiple 24 line windows
	ASTABS are updated every 10 seconds

Order processing window
	Command line input is powerful, intuitive and easy to learn with prompts.
	A command file capability is used to enter orders from a file.  This is a powerful tool for regression testing.	

Track sharing with CH
	Radar and visual detections in RESA blue ghost view using selected CH units that are reported to GCCS-M on behalf of CH.
	CH controls state of sensors.
	Sensors have similar behavior across models (PLOT RADAR)

Air Tasking Order (ATO)
	Automated procedure to convert USMTF ATO and ACO into RESA orders
	Supported airspace types include: 
           ACO         RESA airspace
          apoint    -> cap
          circle    -> cap
          polyarc   -> orbit
          polygon   -> orbit
          radarc    -> orbit
          orbit     -> orbit
          corridor  -> route
          geoline   -> route
          track     -> route
 
	Messages with ALSPID for AWSIM reporting of mission status to TBMCS
	Fly TLAMS to position with DMPI
	Fly most mission types including ASW, CAP, Strike, etc.
	Strike missions with multiple targets using % munitions of each target (ripple, strike, DMPI)
	Time zones (zulu, india)
	Independent ACO and ATO
	ACO updates
	Fly naval missions of contries in ATO without federate
	KR16 Per day: 500 airspace definitions, 200-300 missions, 5 updates  

Mobile Ground Targets
	RESA can strike a mobile ground target by selecting target on geo.
	A kill box can be created to focus on targets within an area.
	Target location can be specified to 1/1000 second.

RMG
	OTH/Gold message of reporting units and tracks to GCCS-M
	Limit to surface picture.
	Include CH units and tracks
	TCP/IP connection to GCCS-M
	Auto generation of ENTER OTG orders for each RESA and CH unit. Long name, hull number must be added manually.

Run-time Control Flexibility
	Create new ships, subs, aircraft
	Add new systems to units (RADAR, etc.)
	Add new expendables to units (missiles, bombs, etc)
	Expend/replenish expendables
	lock gamer workstations
	Relocate units
	Delete units
	Repair damage
	Charge submarine batteries
	Edit terrain
	Change ratio of simulation time to run time
	Change number of seconds in a cycle of all models
	Manage fuel consumption
	Change weather conditions
	Change side of unit
	Turn terrain masking on or off
	Turn shoreline crossing on or off
	Move aircraft to another base
	Close or open air base
	Set status of aircraft 
	pause simulation

Responsive to new requirements
	Define orders using high level syntax
	Define tables using custom data definition language
	Programming using macros
	Libraries of utility routines

Loadtest
	Quickly launch air, cm, boats.
	Maintain 3 cm fire per minute.

Documentation
	User's Guide
	Controller Guide
	Gamer Guide
	Force control game book
	Force blue game book

AAR
	Order History
	Engagement History
	Aircraft mission history
	BDA history (own forces)
	Damage Archive
	Air track tail
	sunk location
	ALSP message log
	Federation automatic checkpoint every hour

Prescript
	Send NLL and KTO to all active stations.
	Input large RMG file and guarantee no station buffer overflow
	Input large ATO file

Logistics
	Current fuel state for all ships/subs with separate sections for units inside and outside KTO.
	Current weapon state for all ships/subs
	Delta weapon state between 2 given saves

Neutral Side
	Neutral station without ground-truth to support neutral shipping in blue cell.

Unclassified test scenario
	RESA can be tested off line in an unclassified environment


Conclusion
	A cost benefit analysis will show that RESA should continue to be used in theater level training exercises in the JLCCTC federation.
	RESA maintenance and exercise costs are low compared to JSAF.
	ATO is not critical for continued use of RESA at KBSC since KBSC has DAA authority.  All interoperabilty tested will be performed at KBSC.



		




	
 


