YS69 Trip Report by Jim Allen 24Nov15-12Dec15

YS69 Exercise Summary

  RESA participated in Production and Test federations.
  RESA Message Generator(RMG) fed GCCS-M.  RESA Air Tasking Order(ATO) not used.
  8 RESA workstations

  31,000 ground objects which includes 700 MTWS ground objects
  162 MTWS ships and boats,  500 RESA ships
  Amphibious landing with MTWS

  100% Availability for all federates: RESA, AWSIM, ACE-IOS, Warsim, LOGFED, MTWS via KORCOM Bridge

Source code changes and key events during YS69

01. atopermissions.py

  Run this procedure in Navy account.
  This procedure looks for LASTFILE, then executes chmod 775 for all files, and changes 
  LASTFILE to PERMFILE.  Atomissions.py is triggered by existence of PERMFILE. 
  chmod allows RESA account to access Navy accout files using group privileges.

02. Review mode fixes

  The scramble order with END keyword now can be reviewed.
  The prescript program successfully pauses warsim until all orders for minute have been entered.

03. ship/sub sunk location using plot track and display mark

  position of sunk ship is recorded on station 1 using an auto plot track order.
  The first label line is the unit name and the second line is TS<dtg>

04. cancel all order

  ATO missions are not canceled by cancel all order.
  ATO missions must be individually canceled.
 
05. vsta <station> n

  new n side allows for neutral side without ground truth
  The I/O order set is the same as blue/orange order set.
  The ground truth line on astabs is suppressed.
  The plot shows reported position of neutral forces and ground truth is suppressed.

06. Optional ACO or ATO

  ACO copied from earlier game/ato/atoid diectory if not present
  if ATO not present, ATO processing skipped and only ACO input.
  Prescript verbose changed from yes to no, so can see atomissions messages

07. bb2otg_ys

  views and country coded changed for YS exericse.  bb2otg assumes korean models.
  This program was not used during the exercise.  Kon edited bb2otg file.

08. MTWS Interoperability

  RESA and MTWS entity counts match
  LCAC owned by MTWS dead reckoned by RESA for 330 minutes because no update received to set speed to zero.
  LCAC was going 46 knots!
  MTWS not deleting RESA units that have been deleted. 

09. Damage ASTAB

  Duplicate ship sink message eliminated.
  DAMSHP called DAMREP twice causing 2 entries in DAM table.

10. ^f and ^e leaves i/o in lower case input mode

  After processing ^f and ^e set char to $RETURN so parser completes empty order.

11. Copysave

  Copysave no longer waits 1 hr and repeats.   There is a password expiration time that renders looping unworkable. 
  Scenario Files updated since last execution are backed up.

12. Copy all order

  Copy blue and orange order options are disabled.
  copy all has been changed from view to station oriented.
  Control stations do not get copies of messages from control stations, only blue and orange stations. 

13. Blank track number on astab

  A fix to cstrip in lbecho.rat after UFG15 caused astab to display blank track numbers.
  The fix was modified to handle case where character field did not start in first position of word
  The fix described in Form 1 was approved and moved into production on Monday morning.
  Stations need to be bounced for fix to take effect.
 
  The following two lines are before and after changes to cstrip in lbecho.rat
  if (chars[1] == 0)				# Character field initialized to zero  
  if (chars[pos] == 0)				# Character field initialized to zero

14. Saturated network connection from Seoul to Itami Japan

  There is a single pipe for all models, CEIS, VOIP, etc.
  The pipe becomes saturated when large files are transferred.
  RESA gamers complained about slow responses.
  Entering ERASE MAP order improved response time
  World Vector Shoreline will continue to be maintained in case of saturated network.
  A guaranteed percentage of pipe may be possible for RESA.  Currently quality of service given to video, voice and then data.

15. PLOT TRACK (history)

  The track history of the last 7 positions of air detections is controlled using following orders:

    To enable track history
     DEFINE TRACK HISTORY YES

  To plot track history on gamer station
    PLOT TRACK (history)

  Speed leaders are not visible while track history is being plotted and vice versa

  The track position history is stored in TRK table.

16. PLOT LABEL [ LARGE | SMALL ]

  The option of large and small labels on geo has been removed.
  All labels are small.  This will help minimize clutter.

17. Define ErrorTrap

  This order has been removed.  It is not needed on Linux.
  This order needs to be removed from ini files

18. ATO mission orders in flight plan instead of route

  Reverting to ato missions in flight plan since gamers not trained to edit ATO routes.
  This simplifies ato processing since ATO mission routes are no longer used.
  The RTE astab will be shorter but still contain airspace definitions.
  Code to remove ATO routes has also been commented.

19. Authorization To Operate

  I spoke with Ray Chang(?), a KBSC contractor, about RESA ATO.
  There needs to be a RESA organization structure with all processes documented.
  An independent team outside KBSC will assess compliance with ATO requirements.
  RESA has a head start by using PEO-STRI lockdown version of RHEL and github.
  







