Overview

Enumerations cross-checking for RESA is typically performed prior to integration events and at other junctures specified by the JLCCTC System Engineering staff.  Step 4 below can also be performed during a RESA exercise when changes are made to enumerations.  This document provides detailed instructions for each of the following steps:

1) Download the latest Master Enumerations data from the MITRE sharepoint.
2) Extract the data required by the RESA enumeration cross-checking software.
3) Transfer the data to the Linux directory where the cross-checking will be performed.
4) Execute the enumerations cross-checking application.

You no longer require a Windows computer with Microsoft Office for steps 1) and 2).  Either Microsoft Excel on Windows or Mac, or Libre Office Calc on Linux or any other platform, can process the spreadsheets downloaded from the MITRE shareport.  For these steps, you will need Internet access and a browser.  (Note:  Libre Office version 4 or later is recommended.)

Beginning at Step 3, you will require a Red Hat Enterprise Linux computer to complete the process.  
 
1) Download the latest Master Enumerations data from the MITRE sharepoint.

The MITRE sharepoint for JLCCTC developers is found at the URL https://partners.mitre.org/sites/actf/ (ACTF was the original name of the JLCCTC federation).  To access the sharepoint’s contents you must have an account; members of MITRE’s JLCCTC System Engineering team can provide assistance.  

When you are presented with the Home page, click on the MRF tab toward the top, left of center.  

When you are presented with the MRF page, click on MRF v7 (or 7.1) Docs on the left-hand side, near the top.

You will be presented with several Folders.  Open the Data Products folder and, below that, the Master Enumerations folder.  You will see a small number of zip files from which to choose.  Download the desired zip file, usually the latest one.


2) Extract the data required by the RESA enumeration cross-checking software.

Double-click on the zip file that you just downloaded.  This will display 5 files as if they are in a folder.  Two of the files’ names begin with the letters MEL, and represent the Master Enumeration List, which is of interest to RESA; the other 3 files are not used by this process.   

Double-click on the MEL’s xlsx representation.  Make sure that editing is not disabled.  The spreadsheet should show the Objects tab; you will notice that there is also an Interactions tab, which you will process in a moment.

From the pull-down menus, click:  File -> Save As

Choose the folder into which your output file will go.  Name the file MELobjects and choose a file type of “CSV (Comma delimited)”.  If using Excel, do not choose Mac or MS-DOS CSV format.

Click Save.  You will see one warning and one question, to which you press OK and Yes, respectively.

Click on the Interactions tab, and save in the same manner as above, naming the file MELinteractions.

You may now close the file.  To any further questions about saving the files that you changed, you can press Don’t Save.


3) Transfer the data to the Linux directory where the cross-checking will be performed.  As of this writing, $RESA_TRUNK has all of the other necessary files.  

NOTE:  It is highly desirable to update the RESA repository as the MEL .csv files change.  The latest version should be in resang/trunk/.

At the end of Step 2), you should have two csv files:  MELobjects.csv and MELinteractions.csv; if your files are differently named, the RESA enumerations software will not work correctly.  You may now choose -- or you can wait until after the transfer -- to remove the first record of each of these files, as it contains column names.

If you did not download the .csv files on the target Linux computer, transfer them using scp, WinSCP, perhaps a regular copy to a directory shared by a virtual machine host and guest, or some other file transfer mechanism (including, possibly, a thumb drive, CD, or other storage device).  The required software is already present in $RESA_TRUNK.

If you have not done so until now, remove the first record of each .csv file now; these contain column names.

4) Execute the enumerations cross-checking application.

To execute the software, simply enter:

./recc.sh

This must be performed in the $RESA_TRUNK directory, as one or more RESA source files provide input.

After a few seconds, the shell prompt will re-appear, you will see a new version of RESA.xml -- this is the file to send to the appropriate MITRE team member as an e-mail attachment; you might have to change the extension to circumvent e-mail filters.

